50 Pesos

Sometime last February, I gave 50 Pesos to someone who really needed it. A drifter.

I was eating lunch at my usual spot. A place named Crispy Pig - they served sisig and pork with gravy for only 49 Pesos. WHAT A DEAL! WHAT A STEAL!

I was enjoying my meal thoroughly. I can't remember if I was done with class, or if I was actively... postponing going to it. Data analytics, amirite.

After I finished my meal, I walked slowly down the ramp towards the main road, when I saw a guy in a red shirt. He looked lost. He looked scared.

He carried a sack, and a bunch of cardboard boxes. He entered the entrance of one of the karenderias.

You know those moments where you can tell that God's really testing you? For some people, it's through effort. For some people, it's through cleverness, striving towards a goal, the daily grind, the everyday struggle of putting food on the table. For some, it's just going through another day trying to take care of yourself as best as you can - as far as you know how to.

But this was a different kind of test. I don't know why I felt so conflicted. It took me a good 5 minutes to muster up the courage to open my wallet and pull out a 50 Peso bill. Usually when I ate at Crispy Pig I'd give 100, and they'd give me change. I think that was the change that I gave him. Except for maybe that lone Peso. It was too inconvenient to pull out my purse and count the coins I'd give to the guy.

It really makes you wonder. How many charitable acts have been... stiffled, just because it was inconvenient. Maybe because someone else was watching and that they'd maybe judge. Or because it was against the law to give to the needy - because a few of the really bad apples used it for drugs.

When I gave it to him, and when he looked me in the eyes, I felt a rush of warmth. I couldn't help but smile. It touched me in a way nothing has up until that point. Fighting against the norm. To take the time - the time that I needed - to find the courage to actually give. And to bear whatever consequences that act may invite - real, or unrealized.

I left quickly to go back to class. I forgot about it for some time, but I remember it now.

I didn't get reprimanded. I didn't get shamed. I didn't get any weird looks. I wasn't arrested, nor was I hurt. It was in fact, the opposite. I felt blessed.

I felt as blessed as he was when I gave him the money.

The Steward.